Routes entity page, router expressions, proxying (#168)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/gateway/routing/expressions-router-examples.md

---
title: Expressions router examples

description: "The expressions router can be used to perform tasks such as defining complex routing logic on a [Route](/gateway/entities/route/)."

content_type: reference
layout: reference

min_version:
  gateway: 3.0

products:
  - gateway

related_resources:
  - text: Route entity
    url: /gateway/entities/route/
  - text: About the expressions router
    url: /gateway/routing/expressions/
  - text: Expressions router reference
    url: /gateway/routing/expressions-router-reference/
  - text: Expressions repository
    url: https://github.com/Kong/atc-router

breadcrumbs:
  - /gateway/
---

{{ page.description }} This page shows some example Routes in the expression language that you can use when you're configuring your own Routes.

## HTTP examples 
### Prefix based path matching

Prefix based path matching is one of the most commonly used methods for routing. For example, if you want to match HTTP requests that have a path starting with `/foo/bar`, you can write the following route:

```
http.path ^= "/foo/bar"
```

### Regex based path matching

> If you prefer to match a HTTP requests path against a regex, you can write the following route:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer to match an HTTP request's path against a regex, you can write the following route:
```

```
http.path ~ r#"/foo/bar/\d+"#
```

### Case insensitive path matching

If you want to ignore case when performing the path match, use the `lower()` modifier on the field
to ensure it always returns a lowercase value:

```
lower(http.path) == "/foo/bar"
```

This will match requests with a path of `/foo/bar` and `/FOO/bAr`, for example.

### Match by header value

If you want to match incoming requests by the value of header `X-Foo`, do the following:

```
http.headers.x_foo ~ r#"bar\d"#
```

If there are multiple header values for `X-Foo` and the client sends more than

> one `X-Foo` header with different value, the above example will ensure **each** instance of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one `X-Foo` header with different values, the above example will ensure **each** instance of the
```
